Update md guidance to include all current recommendations (#11046)
MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs: reference/docs-conceptual/community/contributing/general-markdown.md

---
description: This article provides specific guidance for using Markdown in our documentation.
ms.date: 04/23/2024
title: Markdown best practices
---
# Markdown best practices

This article provides specific guidance for using Markdown in our documentation. This is not a

> tutorial for Markdown, but list specific rules and best practice for Markdown in the PowerShell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tutorial for Markdown, but lists specific rules and best practices for Markdown in the PowerShell
```

#### Unordered lists

- Don't end list items with a period unless they contain multiple sentences.
- Use the hyphen character (`-`) for list item bullets. This avoids confusion with emphasis markup
  that uses the asterisk (`*`).
- To include a paragraph or other elements under a bullet item, insert a line break and align
  indentation with the first character after the bullet.

For example:

```Markdown

> This is a list that contain child elements under a bullet item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a list that contains child elements under a bullet item.
```

> [!WARNING]
> Dangerous certain consequences of an action.

### Markdown extension - Tables

A table is an arrangement of data with rows and columns, consisting of a single header row, a
delimiter row separating the header from the data, and zero or more data rows.

Each row consists of cells containing arbitrary text separated by pipes (`|`). A leading and
trailing pipe is also recommended for clarity. Spaces between pipes and cell content are trimmed.
Block-level elements can't be inserted in a table. All content of a row must be on a single line.

The delimiter row consists of cells whose only content are hyphens (`-`), and optionally, a leading
or trailing colon (`:`), or both, to indicate left, right, or center alignment respectively.

For small tables, consider using a list instead. Lists are easier to maintain and read, can be

> reflowed to fit within the 100-character line limit, and are more accessible for uses that use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reflowed to fit within the 100-character line limit, and are more accessible for users that use
```

  - `[about_Splatting](about_Splatting.md#splatting-with-arrays)`
  - `[custom key bindings](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/keybindings#_custom-keybindings-for-refactorings)`

For more information, see [Use links in documentation][02].

### Code spans

Code spans are used for inline code snippets within a paragraph. Use single backticks to indicate a
code span. For example:

```Markdown
PowerShell cmdlet names use the `Verb-Noun` naming convention.
```

> This examples renders as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example renders as:
```

PowerShell cmdlet names use the `Verb-Noun` naming convention.

### Code blocks

> Code blocks are used for command example, multi-line code samples, query languages, and outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code blocks are used for command examples, multi-line code samples, query languages, and outputs.
```

There are two ways to indicate a section of text in an article file is a code block: by fencing it
in triple-backticks (` ``` `) or by indenting it.

> Never use indentation because it's too easy to get wrong and it may be hard for another writer to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Never use indentation because it's too easy to get wrong and it may be difficult for another writer to
```

understand your intent when they need to edit your article.

Fenced code blocks can include an optional tag that indicates the language syntax contained in the
block. The publishing platform supports a list of [language tags][04]. The language tag is used to
provide syntax highlighting when the article is rendered on the webpage. The language tag is not

> case-sensitive, but except for a few special cases, you should use lowercase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
case-sensitive, but you should use lowercase except for a few special cases.
```

> - Untagged code fences can be used for syntax blocks or other content that you don't have syntax
>   highlighting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Code fences without tags can be used for syntax blocks or other types of content where syntax
highlighting is not required.
```
